# Reservoir Simulation Handy Tools

This is a collection of various sripts I wrote a few years ago to help me out with running numerical simulation models as a reservoir engineer. I beleive they are still useful but some may need a rewrite as I wrote them as I was early in learning Python.

If you are planning to use any of the scripts, please review the code prior. I am not maintaining this library regularly. Please use it on your own risk.

Here are the list of the scripts and a short description on what they do:
1. [EXCEL to vol file (Vertical Table)](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#excel-to-vol-file-vertical-table)
2. [EXCEL to vol file (Horizaontal Table)](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#excel-to-vol-file-horizaontal-table)
3. [Extract VOL from WCONHIST](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#extract-vol-from-wconhist)
4. [ECLIPSE - DATA file expander](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#eclipse---data-file-expander)
5. [ECLIPSE - Deck updater](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#eclipse---deck-updater)
6. [MEPO - Extracting data from OBI files](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#mepo---extracting-data-from-obi-files)
7. [MEPO - Extract Simulation Results for external plotting](https://github.com/a-edalat/ResSim-HandyTools/edit/main/README.md#mepo---extract-simulation-results-for-external-plotting)

##### EXCEL to vol file (Vertical Table)

Converts tabulated EXCEL files to a vol file. It assumes the values are stacked next to each other as columns rather than rows or on top of each other. (The next one addresses this) 

##### EXCEL to vol file (Horizaontal Table)

Converts tabulated EXCEL files to a vol file. It assumes the values are stacked on top of each other as rows rather than columns or next to each other. (The precious one addresses this)

##### Extract VOL from WCONHIST

If you have lost the original cleaned historical data, this would allow you to extract the historical data used to generate the WCONHIST from an existing ECLIPSE deck.

##### ECLIPSE - DATA file expander

To troubleshoot issues in ECLIPSE, one of my methods of troubleshooting is to remove all the include files and have all the deck in a single file (without GRID data ofcourse). 
If you have a DATA file with a lot of include files in ECLIPSE(Numerical Simulator by Schlumberger) and you wish to have a clean file with all the DATA in a single file, this is the tool for you. Current version, you can select to have COORD and ZCORD information to be included in the final file.
is expander.

##### ECLIPSE - Deck updater

This is particularly handy in probablistic runs. Petrel has this tendency to export RPRST BASIC=2, regardless of the options select, once you used it once. I used this script to remove RPTRST or set it as BASIC=0 after all the cases are exported before running all the probablistic cases. 

##### MEPO - Extracting data from OBI files

This project extract data from OBI files generated by MEPO for all the Response parameters. It is handy if you have forgotten to add them to mismatched or watch parameters.

##### MEPO - Extract Simulation Results for external plotting

This script helps with moving the UNSMRY and SMSPEC files of a simulation study to a new folder. The user then would to be able to plot it in Petrel or similar plotting tools. My recommendation is to add this script to the MEPO post-processing workflow.Needless to say you needed to ask MEPO to keep the files for you and to not remove them.

contact me on: hell0@aminenoor.com
I also have a blog on: www.aminnoor.blog
